Blockchain Fundamentals

I.   Blockchain is a shared, immutable ledger that facilitates the process of recording transactions and tracking assets in a business network. 
II.  An asset can be tangible (a house, a car, cash, land) or intangible (intellectual property, patents, copyrights, branding). 
     Virtually anything of value can be tracked and traded on a blockchain network, reducing risk and cutting costs for all involved.

III. Many business transactions remain inefficient, expensive, and vulnerable, suffering from limitations like:
     1. Cash is useful only in local transactions and in relatively small amounts.
     2. The time between transaction and settlement can be long.
     3. Fraud, cyberattacks, and even simple mistakes add to the cost and complexity of doing business.
     4. Half of the world’s people don’t have access to bank accounts, requiring them to develop parallel payment systems to conduct transactions.
IV.  One solution that’s been developed to address the complexities, vulnerabilities, inefficiencies, and costs of current transaction systems is Bitcoin — the digital currency launched in    
     2009 
V.   Unlike traditional currencies issued by central banks, Bitcoins have no central monetary authority. No one controls it. 
     Bitcoins aren’t printed like dollars or euros; they're “mined” by people and increasingly by businesses) running computers all around the world who use software to solve mathematical 
     puzzles. 
     Rather than relying on a central monetary authority to monitor, verify, and approve transactions and manage the money supply.
     Bitcoin is enabled by a peer-to-peer computer network made up of its user's machines, akin to the networks that underpin BitTorrent and Skype.

Why it is called BlockChain ?.

I.  Blockchain owes its name to the way it stores transaction data — in blocks that are linked together to form a chain. As the number of transactions grows, so does the blockchain. 
    Blocks record and confirm the time and sequence of transactions, which are then logged into the blockchain within a discrete network governed by rules agreed on by the network   
    participants.
II. Each block contains a hash (a digital fingerprint or unique identifier), timestamped batches of recent valid transactions, and the hash of the previous block. The previous block hash   
    links the blocks together and prevents any block from being altered or a block being inserted between two existing blocks. In this way, each subsequent block strengthens the 
    verification of the previous block and hence the entire blockchain. The method r1. enders the blockchain tamper-evident, lending to the key attribute of immutability.
    To be clear, while the blockchain contains transaction data, it’s not a replacement for databases, messaging technology, transaction processing, or business processes. Instead, the 
    blockchain contains verified proof of transactions. However, while blockchain essentially serves as a database for recording transactions, its benefits extend far beyond those of a 
    traditional database. Most notably, it removes the possibility of tampering by a malicious actor (for example, a dat. abase administrator).

How a blockchain for business works ?.

1. Shared Ledger : Append only distibuted system of record shared across business network.
2. Permissions : Ensuring appropriate visbility, transactions are secure,authenticated and verifiable.
3. Smart Contracts : Business terms embedded in transaction database and executed with transactions.
4. Consensus : All parties agree to network verified transaction.


